[rock music]
♪ ♪
[woman singing in Japanese]
>> narrator: THE POWERFUL VIRAL
RETURNS, AND THYMILPH OF THE
FOUR GENERALS APPEARS.
COMRADES GATHER TOGETHER.
AMIDST THIS INTENSIFYING
BATTLE, KAMINA AND SIMON LEARN
OF THE EXISTENCE OF
THE SPIRAL KING.
TO CONFRONT THIS AS‐YET UNSEEN
ENEMY, KAMINA RESOLVES TO
CAPTURE THE GIGANTIC LAND
BATTLESHIP DAI‐GUNZAN.
VOLCANOES BELCH FIRE AND RIP THE
EARTH ASUNDER.
THE STAGE IS SET FOR THE FINAL
SHOWDOWN, AND THE MAN WILL
SOON LEARN HIS DESTINY.
[explosion]
[snoring]
>> Simon: Y‐YOKO!
>> Yoko: OH, SO THIS IS WHERE
YOU WENT.
>> Simon: I COULDN’T GET TO
SLEEP.
>> Yoko: YOU’RE UNDER A LOT OF
PRESSURE.
AFTER ALL, YOU’RE THE KEY TO THE
OPERATION.
>> Simon: WELL, THAT’S PART OF
IT.
YOKO, THE THING IS‐‐
[explosion]
>> Yoko: THOSE ARE CALLED
VOLCANOES.
THOSE FIRE‐BREATHING MOUNTAINS,
I MEAN.
THERE’S MOLTEN MAGMA BUBBLING
AWAY DEEP UNDER THE EARTH’S
CRUST, AND IT COMES SHOOTING OUT
FROM THE TOP OF THE MOUNTAIN.
RON TOLD ME ABOUT THEM.
>> Simon: THEY’RE JUST LIKE
KAMINA, THEN.
THEY BURN UNDERGROUND UNTIL THEY
JUST CAN’T BE CONTAINED ANYMORE,
AND THEY EXPLODE.
SOUNDS JUST LIKE HIM, RIGHT?
[groans]
WHAT’S WRONG?
>> Yoko: KAMINA SAID THE SAME
THING, WORD FOR WORD.
"SOUNDS JUST LIKE ME," HE SAID.
IS THAT THE OLD "MALE BONDING"
AT WORK, OR WHAT?
>> Simon: NO, NOT EXACTLY.
>> Yoko: HERE.
IT’S REAL HOT, SO BE CAREFUL.
IF YOU GO INTO BATTLE HUNGRY,
LAGANN WON’T RUN AT FULL POWER.
>> Simon: THANKS A LOT.
>> Yoko: SO, UH, SIMON...
[Simon gasps]
NOTHING. FORGET IT.
GOOD LUCK, SIMON.
[slurps]
[screams]
>> Ron: HERE.
SORRY YOU HAD TO WAIT.
>> Yoko: YES!
I KNEW YOU COULD DO IT.
I DON’T THINK I’LL BE MISSING
ANYTHING WITH THIS.
>> Ron: I WAS SO SURPRISED.
YOU RARELY EVER LET ANYONE ELSE
DO MAINTENANCE ON YOUR GUN.
>> Yoko: WELL, FAILURE ISN’T AN
OPTION TODAY.
>> Ron: YOU UNDERSTAND, I SEE.
>> Yoko: GURREN LAGANN IS FAR
MORE POWERFUL THAN GURREN ON ITS
OWN.
>> Ron: AND BETTER DEFENDED.
IF KAMINA BOUNDS IN AS USUAL,
THERE’S NO TELLING WHAT WILL
HAPPEN.
>> Yoko: HE’S NOT THE SORT OF
MAN WHO WILL STOP NOW, NO MATTER
WHAT WE SAY TO HIM.
I’LL TRY TO KEEP HIM SAFE.
HONESTLY, THAT MAN IS SUCH A
PAIN.
>> Ron: YOU’RE QUITE A PAIN IN
THE PATOOTIE YOURSELF,
SWEETHEART.
[gobbling]
[coughing]
>> Yoko: HERE.
IF YOU EAT TOO MUCH RIGHT NOW,
WON’T THAT JUST SLOW YOU DOWN
LATER ON?
[sighs]
>> Kamina: I NEED LOTS OF POWER.
ESPECIALLY TODAY.
YOKO, YOU JUST WATCH MY BACK.
I’LL CRUSH ANYTHING THAT COMES
AT ME FROM UP AHEAD.
YOU DEAL WITH ANYTHING THAT
COMES FROM BEHIND.
>> Yoko: KAMINA.
YOUR BACK IS YOUR ONE BIG BLIND
SPOT.
>> Kamina: WHAT ARE YOU...
[calming music]
♪ ♪
I’LL REPAY THAT.
I’LL REPAY THAT TEN TIMES OVER.
MARK MY WORDS.
[laughs]
WHAT’S SO FUNNY?
>> Yoko: COULDN’T YOU HAVE
PHRASED THAT MORE ROMANTICALLY?
>> Kamina: NOW LET’S HEAD OUT
THERE AND RAISE A LITTLE HELL!
>> Yoko: KAMINA, I’M REALLY
LOOKING FORWARD TO BEING REPAID.
>> Kamina: RIGHT!
[giggles]
[leaves rustle]
[whimpering]
>> WHAT THE HELL?
>> Dayakka: MUST BE A BIG CASE
OF NERVES.
[snoring]
[groans]
>> Simon: NONE OF MY BUSINESS!
NONE OF MY BUSINESS!
WHAT SHE DOES IS NONE OF MY DAMN
BUSINESS!
[screams]
>> Kamina: WHY’D YOU DO THAT?
>> Simon: HUH? WHAT?
UH, NO REASON.
>> Kamina: I GUESS IT’S NATURAL
AT A TIME LIKE THIS.
DON’T WORRY, SIMON.
I KNOW YOU CAN DO IT!
>> Simon: UM, SURE.
>> Kamina: LET’S GET OUT THERE,
BLOOD BROTHER.
LISTEN UP!
THIS PLAN IS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
FIRST, WE GUNMEN PILOTS WILL
ATTACK TO DRAW THE ENEMY’S
GUNMEN OUT INTO THE OPEN.
WHILE WE’RE DOING THAT, SIMON
WILL USE LAGANN TO COMBINE WITH
THAT BEHEMOTH’S HEAD AND TAKE
CONTROL OF IT AWAY FROM THEM!
THEN WE’LL USE THE CAPTURED
BEHEMOTH TO CRUSH THE ENEMY
GUNMEN.
AT THAT POINT, THE FIGHT IS
OURS!
ARE WE CLEAR?
>> all: YEAH!
>> WE GET IT!
WE HIT ’EM.
WE HIT ’EM FAST AND HIT ’EM
HARD!
>> Ron: I MADE IT SO YOU GUNMEN
PILOTS WOULD BE ABLE TO SPEAK TO
ONE ANOTHER.
THOUGH I REALLY DON’T THINK
YOU’RE THE SORT OF FELLAS WHO
WOULD LISTEN TO ANYTHING THEY’RE
TOLD, ANYWAY.
BUT IF YOU WANT TO LIVE, I
SUGGEST THAT YOU REMAIN IN
CONTACT.
>> all: UM, YEAH!
>> WE MAKE CONTACT, THEN WE
SMASH ’EM AND SMASH ’EM GOOD!
>> Kamina: ALL RIGHT, LET’S GET
TO IT!
TEAM DAI‐GURREN, MOVE OUT NOW!
>> all: YEAH!
>> Kittan: YOU GUYS ARE IN
CHARGE OF KEEPING THIS PLACE
SAFE.
>> Kiyoh: LEAVE IT TO US, BIG
BROTHER.
>> Kinon: YOU CAN DO IT!
>> Yoko: THANKS FOR THE LIFT.
>> Iraak: IT’S ALWAYS AN HONOR
TO HAVE A LADY ON BOARD.
>> Kiyal: YOKO, COME ON!
NO FAIR!
>> Gimmy: SIMON, GOOD LUCK!
>> Darry: GOOD LUCK, SIMON.
>> Kamina: ISN’T THIS AWESOME,
SIMON?
WHEN WE LEFT THE VILLAGE, TEAM
GURREN WAS JUST THE TWO OF US.
AND NOW WE’RE HEADING OUT TO
PICK A FIGHT WITH THE BEASTMEN
WITH ALL THESE FRIENDS.
THIS IS THE MOST AWESOME THING
EVER.
[Boota grunts]
>> Simon: BOOTA SAYS HE WAS WITH
US TOO.
[laughs]
>> Kamina: YOU’RE RIGHT.
GUESS I FORGOT.
SORRY, BOOTA.
TEAM GURREN WAS TWO GUYS AND A
PIG‐MOLE.
[Yoko clears throat]
>> Yoko: I WAS THERE TOO,
REMEMBER?
I WAS THERE WITH YOU AND SIMON
AND BOOTA WHEN YOU LEFT YOUR
VILLAGE.
>> Kamina: YOU WERE?
>> Yoko: YOU MEAN YOU DON’T
REMEMBER?
>> Kamina: WELL, EITHER WAY,
IT DOESN’T MATTER.
YOU WEREN’T IN TEAM GURREN BACK
THEN, YOKO.
>> Yoko: WHAT?
HOW CAN YOU SAY THAT?
[laughter]
>> Dayakka: WE HEARD EVERY WORD,
YOKO!
[gasps]
>> Ron: ALL COMM CHANNELS ARE
OPEN.
I JUST EXPLAINED THAT, DIDN’T I?
>> Kittan: WE’LL DO FINE IF WE
CAN STAY RELAXED.
WE CAN WIN THIS, RIGHT, KAMINA?
>> Kamina: OF COURSE WE CAN!
JUST WHO THE HELL DO YOU THINK I
AM?
>> Simon: KEEP EVERYTHING ELSE
OUT OF YOUR MIND.
CONCENTRATE, SIMON!
[electronic whirring]
[explosions]
>> Ron: IT’S IN YOUR HANDS NOW,
EVERYONE.
>> Rossiu: WHAT ARE THOSE?
>> Ron: WELL, ONE IS CONNECTED
TO LAGANN’S SYSTEMS AND THE
OTHER TO GURREN’S.
YOU CARE TO HELP OUT?
>> Rossiu: SURE.
>> Gimmy: ME TOO! ME TOO!
LET ME HELP! LET ME HELP!
>> Ron: NOW, NOW, GIMMY!
IF YOU TOUCH IT, I’LL GOBBLE YOU
UP.
[screams]
>> Kidd: OKAY!
>> Kamina: GO!
>> all: YEAH!
>> Viral: WE’VE BEEN WAITING!
WE KNEW THAT YOU WOULD TRY TO
SNEAK UP ON US.
>> Kamina: GOOD.
WE WERE COUNTING ON IT!
[explosions]
>> Viral: BOULDERS?
>> Kamina: SUCK ROCKS, FURBALLS!
>> Viral: DAMN BARBARIC HUMANS!
CAN’T YOU MEET US FIST TO FIST,
YOU COWARDS?
>> Kamina: THIS ROCK IS MY FIST!
>> Viral: A ROCK IS A ROCK!
IT’S NOT A DAMN FIST!
>> Kamina: IS STATING THE
OBVIOUS THE BEST YOU GOT, YOU
DUMB‐ASS?
[laughs]
>> Viral: YOU DARE MOCK ME?
>> Thymilph: NOW, NOW, VIRAL.
IT’S UNBECOMING TO GET RILED UP
OVER EVERY LITTLE FOOLISH THING
THESE HUMANS SAY TO YOU.
SUCH PALTRY ATTACKS BY THE
HUMANS WON’T LEAVE SO MUCH
AS A DENT ON DAI‐GUNZAN!
[laughter]
>> Dayakka: LAUGH THIS OFF!
[explosions]
>> Thymilph: HOW DARE YOU, YOU
FILTHY, STINKING HUMANS!
DAI‐GUNZAN, ACTIVATE.
OPEN ALL GUN PORTS.
SEND THEM FLYING TO OBLIVION!
[artillery fire]
[screams]
[explosions]
CATAPULT ARM, STAND...
BY.
ALL RIGHT, THROW!
>> Yoko: GOTCHA!
[gasps]
[suspenseful music]
♪ ♪
[growls]
>> Viral: KAMINA!
THIS TIME, I’M GETTING MY HELMET
BACK BEFORE WE’RE THROUGH.
>> Kamina: YOU’RE STILL WHINING
ABOUT THAT?
GEEZ, WHAT A BABY!
>> Viral: WHERE’S ITS FACE?
DAMN YOU, WHERE DID YOUR HEAD
GO?
>> Kamina: NOW!
GET GOING, SIMON!
>> ENEMY DETECTED OVERHEAD.
TWELVE O’CLOCK HIGH.
>> Thymilph: THEN SHOOT HIM
DOWN!
>> THERE’S A BLIND SPOT
OVERHEAD.
OUR FLAK CURTAIN DOESN’T
COMPLETELY COVER US.
>> Thymilph: USE FIGHTING
SPIRIT, YOU IDIOTS!
>> Kamina: WE HAVE THE EDGE IN
SPIRIT TOO!
GET IN THERE, SIMON!
>> Simon: LAGANN IMPACT!
>> Thymilph: THAT WAS CLOSE!
>> GENERAL THYMILPH, YOU’RE IN
GRAVE DANGER HERE.
>> Viral: WHAT ARE YOU TRYING TO
DO?
>> Kamina: WE MERGED ’EM.
WE COMBINED OUR LAGANN WITH YOUR
DAI‐GUNZAN.
>> Viral: YOU WHAT?
>> Kamina: THAT BEHEMOTH NOW
BELONGS TO US.
>> Viral: DAMN YOU, KAMINA.
THIS WAS ALL A SETUP.
>> Kamina: YEAH, SURE LOOKS THAT
WAY!
I PUT ALL OF OUR LUCK AND OUR
METTLE TO THE TEST!
[metal clanging]
>> Viral: WHAT THE‐‐HOW DID HE
GET SO GOOD SO FAST?
DAMN!
[screaming]
>> Kamina: NICE SHOOTING, YOKO!
>> Yoko: WELL, I GAVE YOU MY
WORD.
I’VE GOT YOUR BACK, KAMINA, SO
GO FOR IT!
>> Iraak: I’M GONNA RUN.
HOLD ON.
>> Kidd: THOSE TWO ARE GOOD,
BUT I’M NOT GONNA LET THEM
HAVE ALL THE FUN!
[suspenseful music]
♪ ♪
HEY, WHAT’S THE BIG IDEA, SIMON?
>> Simon: SORRY!
IT WASN’T ON PURPOSE!
I DON’T HAVE VERY GOOD CONTROL
YET.
>> Ron: THE COMBINING ISN’T
GOING SMOOTHLY.
HE CAN’T FULLY SYNC UP WITH THE
ENEMY’S CONTROL SYSTEM.
>> Rossiu: MAYBE SIMON’S WORRIED
ABOUT SOMETHING.
LAGANN’S POWER IS TIED TO
SIMON’S MENTAL STATE.
SO IF SOMETHING’S BOTHERING
HIM...
>> Thymilph: HAVEN’T YOU
REGAINED CONTROL YET?
>> I’M SORRY, SIR.
IT’S STILL TOTALLY UNRESPONSIVE.
>> Thymilph: IT’S THE WORK OF
THAT GUNMEN THAT’S ONLY A FACE.
ARE THEY SERIOUSLY TRYING TO
COMMANDEER MY DAI‐GUNZAN?
I’LL GO OUT THERE AND TEAR HIM
LOOSE MYSELF!
IN MY BYAKOU!
>> Kamina: WHAT’S THE MATTER?
WHAT’S THE HOLDUP?
>> Simon: I’M TRYING, BUT IT’S
NOT WORKING!
BUT WHY?
WHY IS THAT KEEPING ME FROM
CONCENTRATING?
DAMN IT!
>> Viral: YOU’VE BLOWN YOUR
ENDGAME, FOOL.
IGNORE THE SMALL FRY!
RETURN TO DAI‐GUNZAN!
>> Kamina: YOU’RE NOT GOING
ANYWHERE.
YOU GUYS KEEP THE GUNMEN PINNED
DOWN.
I’LL SEE WHAT I CAN DO ABOUT
SIMON.
>> all: RIGHT!
[yelling]
[grunting]
>> Kamina: SIMON, OPEN THE
HATCH!
LET’S SEE YOU GRIT THOSE TEETH!
[screams]
[weapons firing]
>> Simon: WHY, BRO?
>> Kamina: HAVE YOU SNAPPED OUT
OF IT YET?
I GIVE YOU MY WORD THAT IF YOU
EVER START TO DOUBT YOURSELF,
I’LL COME AND BELT YOU ONE.
SO DON’T WORRY.
I’M RIGHT BY YOUR SIDE.
JUST BELIEVE IN YOURSELF.
BELIEVE IN THE SIMON THAT I HAVE
FAITH IN.
[gasping]
>> Simon: RIGHT, YOU GOT IT!
[electronic whirring]
[beeping]
>> Rossiu: AMAZING!
>> Ron: YES, YOU’RE DOING WELL,
VERY WELL INDEED, SIMON!
YOU’RE SYNCHRONIZING STEADILY.
JUST A LITTLE MORE.
[sighs]
>> Kamina: YOU SEE, YOU CAN DO
IT IF YOU JUST‐‐
[explosion]
[screams]
>> Simon: BRO, NO WAY!
>> Yoko: KAMINA?
[Thymilph laughs]
>> Thymilph: YOU SAD, PATHETIC,
LITTLE WORM.
YOU’LL SOON FIND THAT I WON’T
HAND OVER MY DAI‐GUNZAN SO
EASILY.
>> Kamina: THYMILPH?
DAMN, I DIDN’T SEE‐‐
>> Viral: YOU FORGOT THIS.
HAVE IT BACK.
>> Kamina: YOU SON OF A‐‐
>> Thymilph: ALKAID GLAIVE!
[groans]
YOU’RE A VERY TENACIOUS MAN.
BUT NO, THIS IS THE END
FOR YOU.
[rumbling]
[scream echoes]
>> Yoko: IT CAN’T BE.
[choked groans]
[emotional music]
♪ ♪
>> Ron: NO WAY.
[sobbing]
>> Simon: BRO!
[electronic whirring]
[screaming]
[rumbling]
>> Thymilph: I DON’T GET IT.
WHAT JUST HAPPENED HERE?
>> GENERAL THYMILPH, LOOK OUT!
[screams]
>> Thymilph: VIRAL!
>> Kittan: WHAT THE HELL
IS HAPPENING OUT THERE?
>> Ron: DAI‐GUNZAN HAS GONE
BERSERK!
>> Rossiu: IF IT KEEPS GOING,
IT’LL FALL INTO THE VOLCANO.
>> Ron: SIMON, COME IN!
PULL YOURSELF TOGETHER!
>> Kamina: CAN’T A GUY GET A
LITTLE BIT OF SLEEP AROUND HERE?
[rumbling]
>> Dayakka: SIMON, YOU GOTTA
STOP!
SIMON!
>> Simon: IT’S NO USE.
I CAN’T DO ANYTHING.
THERE’S JUST‐‐THERE’S JUST
NOTHING I CAN DO NOW.
>> Kamina: SIMON, LET’S SEE YOU
GRIT THOSE TEETH.
[gasps]
[crashing]
[screaming]
>> Simon: BRO, YOU’RE ALIVE!
>> Kamina: LISTEN, JUST WHO THE
HELL DO YOU THINK YOU ARE,
SIMON?
YOUR DRILL IS THE DRILL THAT’S
GONNA BUST RIGHT THROUGH HEAVEN
AND EARTH AND EVEN TOMORROW!
WHAT ARE YOU SITTING AROUND HERE
DAWDLING FOR?
WE’VE WON, KID!
THAT BEHEMOTH BELONGS TO YOU
NOW.
YOU DON’T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
ANYTHING.
>> Simon: RIGHT, BRO.
[grunts]
[electronic whirring]
LISTEN UP, EVERYBODY.
EVERYTHING’S OKAY NOW.
DAI‐GUNZAN IS OURS!
COME ON ABOARD!
[cheers]
[screams]
>> Thymilph: YOU DAMN DIRTY
HUMANS.
I RECEIVED THAT AS A GIFT FROM
THE SPIRAL KING HIMSELF!
I’D SOONER COMPLETELY DESTROY IT
THAN SEE IT FALL INTO YOUR
FILTHY HANDS!
[screams]
>> Kamina: THAT OLD FURBALL
DOESN’T KNOW WHEN TO GIVE UP,
DOES HE?
SIMON, COME ON.
LET’S SEND THESE CLOWNS PACKING.
LET’S COMBINE.
WE’LL USE GURREN LAGANN TO
FINISH UP THIS LAST MISSION.
>> Simon: GOT IT, BRO.
I’M WITH YOU.
>> Kamina: NOW LET’S DO IT!
[whirring and clanging]
WE BRAWLERS ARE SUSTAINED BY
WILLPOWER, EVEN WHEN MOCKED AS
RECKLESS AND CRAZY!
>> Simon: IF THERE’S A WALL IN
OUR WAY, THEN WE SMASH IT DOWN!
IF THERE ISN’T A PATH, THEN WE
CARVE ONE OURSELVES!
>> both: THE MAGMA OF OUR
SOULS BURNS WITH A MIGHTY FLAME!
SUPER ULTRA COMBINING,
GURREN LAGANN!
>> Simon: JUST WHO‐‐
>> Kamina: IN THE HELL‐‐
>> both: DO YOU THINK WE ARE?
[explosion]
[cheers]
>> Yoko: THERE’S NOBODY ELSE
LIKE ’EM.
>> Thymilph: STAND YOUR GROUND.
KILL THEM NOW!
>> Kamina: EAT THIS, CANNON
FODDER!
[metallic clanging]
[explosions]
>> Thymilph: DAMN YOU.
CONDEMN BLAZE!
>> Kamina: YOU’LL HAVE TO DO
BETTER THAN THAT.
>> Thymilph: BUT IT CAN’T...
>> Kamina: LISTEN, SIMON.
NEVER FORGET.
JUST BELIEVE IN YOURSELF.
NOT IN THE SIMON THAT I BELIEVE
IN, NOT IN THE KAMINA
THAT YOU BELIEVE IN.
HAVE FAITH IN THE SIMON THAT
BELIEVES IN YOU.
>> Simon: BRO, WHAT ARE YOU‐‐
>> Kamina: FINISHING MOVE!
[crashing and clanging]
GIGA...
DRILL...
BREAK!
[triumphant music]
♪ ♪
[explosion]
LATER, BUDDY.
>> Simon: WHAT WAS THAT, BRO?
BRO?
THAT DAY, WE LOST SOMETHING THAT
COULD NEVER BE REPLACED.
[rock music]
♪ ♪
[man singing in Japanese]
>> Nia: DARK, SUNKEN EYES.
FEELINGS THAT CAN’T BE
SUPPRESSED.
THIS WETNESS STRIKING MY CHEEK,
IS THIS "RAIN"?
NEXT TIME ON GURREN LAGANN,
"WHAT, EXACTLY, IS A HUMAN?"